README.md, before:

# Welcome to Oslo Bysykkel Monitor !

This project contains a simple Python application for working with an open API (in this case the [Oslo Bysykkel](https://oslobysykkel.no/apne-data/sanntid).

![HOME PAGE](app/static/assets/img/home.jpg)

## Introduction
The app shows a list of the various bike stations and how many available locks and available bikes are on them at the moment.
 
To update the data, just refresh the browser or click in the _'Explore all the stations'_ link.


### Monitor Features
- Modular design with **Blueprints**

### Product technology stack
- Used Language: [Python3](https://www.python.org/)
- Web Framework: [Flask](https://www.palletsprojects.com/p/flask/)

<br />

## How to use it

```bash
$ # Get the code
$ git clone https://github.com/flaviassantos/oslo-bysykkel-monitor.git
$ cd oslo-bysykkel-monitor
$
$ # Virtualenv modules installation (Unix based systems)
$ virtualenv --no-site-packages venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$
$ # Virtualenv modules installation (Windows based systems)
$ # virtualenv --no-site-packages venv
$ # .\venv\Scripts\activate
$
$ # Install modules
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$
$ # Set the FLASK_APP environment variable
$ (Unix/Mac) export FLASK_APP=monitor_run.py
$ (Windows) set FLASK_APP=monitor_run.py
$ (Powershell) $env:FLASK_APP = ".\monitor_run.py"
$
$ # Start the application
$ flask run
$
$ # Access the monitor in browser: http://127.0.0.1:5000/
```
<br />

```
@misc{Flavia: 2020,
  Author = {Flavia Santos},
  Title = {Oslo Bysykkel Monitor},
  Year = {2020},
  Publisher = {GitHub},
  Journal = {GitHub repository},
  Howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/flaviassantos/oslo-bysykkel-monitor.git}}
}
```

Commit message:

Update documentation with REST API info

README.md, after:

# Welcome to Oslo Bysykkel Monitor !

This project contains a simple Python application for working with an open API (in this case the [Oslo Bysykkel](https://oslobysykkel.no/apne-data/sanntid)).

![HOME PAGE](app/static/assets/img/home.jpg)

## Introduction
The app shows a list of the various bike stations and how many available locks and available bikes are on them at the moment.
 
To update the data, just refresh the browser or click in the _'Explore all the stations'_ link.

### Product technology stack
- Used Language: [Python3](https://www.python.org/)
- Web Framework: [Flask](https://www.palletsprojects.com/p/flask/)


### Bysykkel Monitor Features
- Modular design with **Blueprints**
- SQLite database engine
- REST API that exposes the data from the stations

#### API Endpoint

> ##### _stations_

Information on all stations, with description and rental availability.

|     **Field Name**    	|       **Type**       	|                                   **Defines**                                 	|
|:---------------------:	|:--------------------:	|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------:	|
| - `station_id`          	| ID                   	| Identifier of a station.                                                       	|
| - `last_updated`        	| Timestamp            	| Indicates the last time the info for the alert was updated.                    	|
| - `name`                	| String               	| Name of the station.                                                           	|
| - `num_bikes_available` 	| Non-negative integer 	| Number of functional bikes physically at the station and available for rental. 	|
| - `num_docks_available` 	| Non-negative integer 	| Number of functional docks physically at the station.                          	|
| - `last_reported`       	| String               	| The last time this station reported its status in a nice readable format.      	|

## How to use it

To run the server:

```bash
$ # Get the code
$ git clone https://github.com/flaviassantos/oslo-bysykkel-monitor.git
$ cd oslo-bysykkel-monitor
$
$ # Virtualenv modules installation (Unix based systems)
$ virtualenv --no-site-packages venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$
$ # Virtualenv modules installation (Windows based systems)
$ # virtualenv --no-site-packages venv
$ # .\venv\Scripts\activate
$
$ # Install modules
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$
$ # Set the FLASK_APP environment variable
$ (Unix/Mac) export FLASK_APP=monitor_run.py
$ (Windows) set FLASK_APP=monitor_run.py
$ (Powershell) $env:FLASK_APP = ".\monitor_run.py"
$
$ # Start the application
$ flask run
$
$ # Access the monitor in browser: http://127.0.0.1:5000/
```

To request API endpoint (with the server running):

```bash
curl  http://localhost:5000/api/stations
```

```
@misc{Flavia: 2020,
  Author = {Flavia Santos},
  Title = {Oslo Bysykkel Monitor},
  Year = {2020},
  Publisher = {GitHub},
  Journal = {GitHub repository},
  Howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/flaviassantos/oslo-bysykkel-monitor.git}}
}
```
